---
title: "Linux to the Rescue"
date: 2023-05-15T00:00-00:00
categories:
  - tech
permalink: /linux-to-the-rescue/
classes: wide
excerpt: Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2 is a better development environment than Windows. Here are some things you should do to start using it.
---

Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2 is a better development environment than Windows for a number of reasons, including:

- Performance: WSL 2 runs a real Linux kernel in a lightweight virtual machine, which gives it much better performance than previous versions of WSL. This is especially important for development tasks that require a lot of CPU or memory, such as compiling code or running large simulations.
- Compatibility: WSL 2 is fully compatible with the Linux command line, so you can use all of your favorite Linux tools and utilities. This makes it easy to develop applications that are compatible with both Linux and Windows.
- Integration: WSL 2 is tightly integrated with Windows, so you can easily share files and folders between your Linux and Windows environments. You can also use Windows tools, such as Visual Studio Code, to develop your Linux applications.
- Ease of use: WSL 2 is very easy to set up and use. You can install it from the Microsoft Store, and it's compatible with most recent versions of Windows.

Overall, WSL 2 is a great way to get the best of both worlds: the performance and compatibility of Linux, and the familiarity and ease of use of Windows. If you're a developer, I highly recommend giving it a try.

Here are some links that helped me use Linux on my Windows:

- [How to Upgrade WSL 2 or 1 Ubuntu 20.04 to 22.04 LTS](https://linux.how2shout.com/how-to-upgrade-wsl-2-or-1-ubuntu-20-04-to-22-04-lts/)
- [How to Install and Manage Multiple Python Versions on Linux](https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/how-to-install-and-manage-multiple-python-versions-on-linux-916990dabe4b)
- [Get started using Git on Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/tutorials/wsl-git)

The following are my most go-to Linux commands and their usage:
```
ln -s /mnt/c/dev/ubuntu/ dev  # Symbolic link, to create shortcuts
nano # a simple editor
code # launch ms code from linux
source # read and execute the contentof a file
```

Happy hacking!